## Flawed brute-force protection

It is highly likely that a brute-force attack will involve many failed guesses before the attacker successfully compromises an account. Logically, brute-force protection revolves around trying to make it as tricky as possible to automate the process and slow down the rate at which an attacker can attempt logins. The two most common ways of preventing brute-force attacks are:

- Locking the account that the remote user is trying to access if they make too many failed login attempts
- Blocking the remote user's IP address if they make too many login attempts in quick succession

Both approaches offer varying degrees of protection, but neither is invulnerable, especially if implemented using flawed logic.

For example, you might sometimes find that your IP is blocked if you fail to log in too many times. In some implementations, the counter for the number of failed attempts resets if the IP owner logs in successfully. This means an attacker would simply have to log in to their own account every few attempts to prevent this limit from ever being reached.

In this case, merely including your own login credentials at regular intervals throughout the 
wordlist is enough to render this defense virtually useless.


This lab is vulnerable due to a logic flaw in its password brute-force protection. To solve the lab, brute-force the victim's password, then log in and access their account page.

- Your credentials: `wiener:peter`
- Victim's username: `carlos`
- [Candidate passwords](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/auth-lab-passwords)

### prep login list
```

```
### prep pass list
```
123456
password
12345678
qwerty
123456789
12345
1234
111111
1234567
dragon
123123
baseball
abc123
football
monkey
letmein
shadow
master
666666
qwertyuiop
123321
mustang
1234567890
michael
654321
superman
1qaz2wsx
7777777
121212
000000
qazwsx
123qwe
killer
trustno1
jordan
jennifer
zxcvbnm
asdfgh
hunter
buster
soccer
harley
batman
andrew
tigger
sunshine
iloveyou
2000
charlie
robert
thomas
hockey
ranger
daniel
starwars
klaster
112233
george
computer
michelle
jessica
pepper
1111
zxcvbn
555555
11111111
131313
freedom
777777
pass
maggie
159753
aaaaaa
ginger
princess
joshua
cheese
amanda
summer
love
ashley
nicole
chelsea
biteme
matthew
access
yankees
987654321
dallas
austin
thunder
taylor
matrix
mobilemail
mom
monitor
monitoring
montana
moon
moscow
```